---
date: September 2023
section: 1
title: Maven Lite
---

# NAME

mvnl - Simple and lightweight Java project manager inspired by the
`Maven` project manager.

# SYNOPSIS

mvnl \[OPTION\]\... \[ARGUMENT\]\...

# DESCRIPTION

Allows compiling and running a Java project with minimal
options and manipulations. Facilitates the compilation and execution
of a Java project more straightforwardly than Maven.

The order of options does not matter.

If an option is used multiple times, only the last one is considered,
except for options that take multiple arguments such as
\--arguments, \--classpath, and \--exclude.

We strongly recommend using the default directory structure
generated by the `mvnl --create` command. This allows you to
compile and run your Java project without having a configuration file
or specifying options on the command line, except for the -c and -l options.

# EXAMPLES

-   `mvnl -s src -t target -c -e UTF-8` \--\> compiles the Java project with
    UTF-8 encoding located in the src folder and places the compiled
    files in the target folder.

-   `mvnl -s src -t target -m package.Main -cl` \--\> compiles and launches the
    Java project located in the src folder, places the compiled files
    in the target folder, and then launches the package.Main class.

-   `mvnl -s src -t target -m package.Main -lc -args "argument 1" "argument 2"`
    \--\> compiles and launches the Java project located in the
    src folder, places the compiled files in the target folder, then launches the
    package.Main class with the arguments `argument 1` and `argument 2` in
    the order passed to the command.

-   `mvnl -m package.Main -l -cp target lib` \--\> launches the
    package.Main class by adding the target folder and the lib folder to
    the project's classpath.

-   `mvnl -m Main -lib lib -l` \--\> launches the Main class by adding all
    JAR files in the lib folder and its subfolders to the project's classpath.

-   `mvnl -f config.txt -cl` \--\> loads options from the
    config.txt file. Content of the config.txt file:
    `-s src -t target -m package.Main`. Compiles and launches the Java project located
    in the src folder, places the compiled files in the
    bin folder, then launches the package.Main class.

# DEFAULT BEHAVIOR

By default, if no options are specified, the `mvnl` command
displays a stylized view of the `mvnl --version` command output.

# OPTIONS

## All options

Usage: mvnl [options] [argument]

Options:
  -f   , \--file               Load options from a configuration file.
                              More information:
                              Number of arguments: 0 to 1.
                              Default value: LPOM.conf.

  -cr  , \--create             Create the project tree and a default configuration file.
                              Number of arguments: 0 to 1.
                              Default value: NewProject.

  -mvc , \--model-view-controllerSpecify for the '--create' option to create
                              the tree structure of an MVC project.
                              Number of arguments: 0.

  -c   , \--compilation        Compile the project.
                              Number of arguments: 0.

  -l   , \--launch             Launch the project.
                              Number of arguments: 0.

  -cl  , \--compile-launch     Compile and launch the project. (equivalent to -c -l)
                              Number of arguments: 0.

  -lc  , \--launch-compile     Compile and launch the project. (equivalent to -c -l)
                              Number of arguments: 0.

  -q   , \--quiet              Suppress java output in the terminal
                              during project execution.
                              Number of arguments: 0.

  -v   , \--verbose            Display executed commands.
                              Number of arguments: 0.

  -ex  , \--exclude            Exclude java files and folders from
                              compilation. If you want to pass an argument that
                              starts with '-', escape the '-' character with two '\\'
                              like this: '-ex \\-file'.
                              Number of arguments: unlimited.

  -cj  , \--compile-jar        Create a JAR file for your project. You can
                              specify the name of the JAR file to create. If you do not specify
                              a name, the JAR file will be named after the project.
                              Number of arguments: 0 to 1.

  -lj  , \--launch-jar         Launch an executable JAR file. You can
                              specify the name of the JAR file to launch. If you do not
                              specify a name, the JAR file will be named after the project.
                              Number of arguments: 0 to 1.

  -it  , \--integrate-test     Integrate unit tests into the project.
                              Number of arguments: 0.

  -s   , \--source             Folder containing java files to compile.
                              Number of arguments: 1.
                              Default value: src/main/java.

  -t   , \--target             Output folder for compiled files. This folder will be
                              created if it does not exist and will be automatically added to
                              the classpath during compilation and launch.
                              Number of arguments: 1.
                              Default value: target.

  -r   , \--resources          Folder containing resource files to copy into the
                              output folder for compiled files in the case of creating a JAR file.
                              Number of arguments: 1.
                              Default value: src/resources.

  -cp  , \--classpath          Specify the classpath to use during
                              compilation and launch. If you want to add
                              multiple elements to the classpath, separate them with
                              ':'.
                              Number of arguments: unlimited.

  -lib , \--libraries          Folder containing JAR files used by the
                              program. All JAR files will be added to the
                              classpath during compilation and launch.
                              Number of arguments: 0 to 1.
                              Default value: src/resources/lib.

  -args, \--arguments          All arguments to pass to the main class. If you
                              want to pass an argument that starts with '-', escape the
                              '-' character with two '\\' like this: '-args
                              \\-argument_for_main'.
                              Number of arguments: unlimited.

  -m   , \--main               Main class to launch. If you want to launch a
                              class in a package, specify the package with the class name like this:
                              'package.name.MainClass'
                              Number of arguments: 1.

  -e   , \--encoding           Change the encoding of java files to compile.
                              Number of arguments: 1.
                              Default value: UTF-8.

  -exp , \--export             Create an executable JAR file to
                              launch the project without installing MavenLite.
                              Number of arguments: 0 à 1.
                              Default value: run.java.

  -mvn , \--maven              Convert the project into a Maven project by creating a
                              pom.xml file and moving files if necessary.
                              Number of arguments  : 0.

  -V   , \--version            Display the version.
                              Number of arguments  : 0.
                              Default value        : 2.0.0.

  -h   , \--help               Display the help and exit.
                              Number of arguments  : 0.

  -clr , \--clear              Delete files in the output folder
                              of compiled files.
                              Number of arguments  : 0.

  -lang, --language           Displays the list of available languages if
                              no argument is passed. If an argument is passed, it allows
                              changing the application's language: 'mvnl -lang en'.

# RETURN CODES

0: Everything went well.

1: An error occurred.

# FILES

Maven Lite consists of 6 files:

-   `'mvnl'`, the main file located in the folder
    `'/usr/local/bin/'`.

-   `'mvnl-uninstall'`, the uninstallation file located in
    the folder `'/usr/local/bin/'`.

-   `'MavenLite.class'`, the MavenLite class file located
    in the `'/usr/local/etc/maven-lite'` folder.

-   `'hamcrest-core-1.3.jar'`, the JAR file of the
    Hamcrest-Core library located in the `'/usr/local/etc/maven-lite'` folder.

-   `'junit-4.13.1.jar'`, the JAR file of the JUnit library located
    in the `'/usr/local/etc/maven-lite'` folder.

-   `'mvnl.1.gz'`, the help file containing the manual page
    displayed with the `'man mvnl'` command located in the folder
    `'/usr/local/man/fr/man1/'` for the French version and in the
    `'/usr/local/man/en/man1/'` folder for the English version.

-   `'/usr/local/etc/maven-lite/lang/'`, the folder containing
    the 6 language files.

# BUGS

There is only one known bug related to arguments with quotes,
backslashes, etc.

# AUTHOR

Written by Robart Floris.

# BUG REPORT

Report bugs via email to \<florobart.github@gmail.com\>
specifying what the bug is, how I can reproduce it, and that
it concerns Maven Lite as well as the version used.
